.\" yafd man page
.
.TH YAFD 1 "yafd 0.1"
.
.SH NAME
yafd - yet another file deduplicator
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yafd
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ path .\|.\|. ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yafd
identifies duplicate files in
.IR path
lists.
If no
.IR path
is given,
.B yafd
will process standard input as a list of
.IR path
values.  By default,
.B yafd
prints duplicate files to standard output.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Print a help summary.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\^\-version
Print the version number.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\^\-recurse
Recurse into sub-directories.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\^\-quiet
Be quiet, don't output anything to standard output.
.TP
.BR \-0 ", " \-\^\-null
Use a zero byte ( ASCII
.BR NUL
) instead of a newline to delimit files.  If filenames can contain whitespace,
this can be used to remove ambiguity.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\^\-force
Don't prompt before doing action (
.BR \-d "/" \-\^\-delete
,
.BR \-l "/" \-\^\-link
, etc... ).  By default, any action requires confirmation.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\^\-link
Merge duplicate files by hard linking them.  This will reduce the amount of disk needed by
(
(
.BR num_files
- 1 )
x
.BR file_size
)
for each group of duplicate files found for each device.  Note, hard links do not have copy-on-write semantics, and duplicate file names will refer to the same file on each device after being hard linked.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\^\-print
Print duplicate files (default).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\^\-interactive
Prompt to choose an action for each duplicate file... (d)elete, (l)ink, (n)othing, etc.
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\^\-zero
Process zero size files as duplicate.  By default, zero sized files are ignored.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\^\-threads
The number of concurrent system threads to use.  By default, this value is
(
.BR num_cpus
x 2
), which is meant to allow half of the threads to block on I/O at any time.  For most workloads and hardware this is a good default, although different workloads and hardware may have better performance with different values.  It is safe to leave this value unset.  Set this to 0 to run without any threads.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\^\-bytes
The number of bytes to use in the digest.  This value defaults to the block size of the filesystem, which is generally enough data to distinguish between files.  However, if files have more data in common than differs, using a larger value may give better performance.  It is safe to leave this value unset.  Set this value to 0 to avoid computing digests.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\^\-blocksize
The default blocksize to use.  If the block size for a file cannot be determined, this value will be used.  It is safe to leave this value unset.  Valid values are generally multiples of two (4096, 8192, etc...).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\^\-offset
A static offset into files to use for digests.  This value should not be set unless you have specific information about the contents of the files being processed.  By default, the offset is randomized which limits pathological performance and digest collision problems.  It is safe to leave this value unset.  Set to a negative value to define an offset relative to file ends.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\^\-mmap
Use memory mapped file I/O.  This may improve performance for unusually large files or extremely high file counts, but it is slightly dangerous and may be
removed in a future version.  Consider guarding your pets.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\^\-crc32
Use CRC-32 to digest bytes.  This may be faster on architectures that support a CRC-32 instruction, namely the SSE4.2 instruction set.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\^\-fnv32a
Use FNV-1a (32 bit) to digest bytes.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\^\-fnv64a
Use FNV-1a (64 bit) to digest bytes.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\^\-frm64
Use FarmHash (64 bit) to digest bytes.
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\^\-frm128
Use FarmHash (128 bit) to digest bytes.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\^\-sky64
Use SpookyHash (64 bit) to digest bytes.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\^\-sky128
Use SpookyHash (128 bit) to digest bytes.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B yafd a b c d

Print duplicate files in the group of files a, b, c, and d.

.B yafd -r -z .

Recursively find duplicated files in the current directory, including zero sized files.

.B yafd -i src/*/**/*.hpp src/*/**/*.cpp

Interactively process duplicated source files.

.B find /multimedia -size +1G | yafd -N -b 1048576 | xargs du -b | awk '{ x+=$1; } END { print x; }'

Find duplicate files larger than 1GiB using FNV-1a (64 bit) with 1MiB for digest and print the total bytes consumed.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Jason Schulz <https://github.com/uxcn>.
.
.SH BUGS
Send any bug reports to the github issue tracker (https://github.com/uxcn/yafd/issues)
.
.SH SEE ALSO
fdupes(1), find(1), xargs(1)
